You said we just got a $7 million gift?
Yes, we got a $7 million gift in 1999 from a person who was a $100-a-year donor.
Wow.
Can you tell me who he is?
She is?
This person is still alive?
Well, it's a little bit of a complicated story, because I'll tell you the story off the record, and then we'll see what we can use.
I don't have to think about his name.
His wife's name is well-known.
I mean, is known to me.
This person was a bachelor and gave us $100 a year as a friend of the library.
His will stipulated that if he predeceased... Wow.
There was this fellow and his sister.
Good story.
The will stipulated that if his sister died first, his entire estate would come to the New York Public Library.
It further stipulated that if he predeceased his sister,
The library would get $20,000, and the rest would go to the sister.
That is indeed what happened.
So now he's dead?
So then he died.
I can get his name.
Yeah, but I can give you all that stuff.
So then the sister died shortly after the brother died.
So an attorney representing the sister's husband, Dr. Adolf Berger.
That's the name of the guy who died?
No.
Adolf Berger is the husband of Margaret Liebman Berger.
B-E-R-G-E-R?
B-E-R-G-E-R.
And so Margaret Liebman's husband's brother's name was something Liebman.
Charles, I think.
Charles Liebman.
He's the benefactor.
Well, there are many benefactors, it turns out.
So Liebman, right?
Liebman.
L-E-I-B-M-A-N?
L-E-I-B-M-A-N.
Yes.
So the attorney representing the widower of his sister wrote to me asking, saying that he'd like to talk to me about a possible gift to the library.
So I said, sure, I'd love to see you.
And the development, this is off the record, the development people here said, don't get your hopes up.
You know, the person involved gave us $100.
a year, and so you're going to be lucky to get $100,000.
And I said, well, look, this letter comes from, you know, a white shoe law firm, and an attorney at this level wouldn't ask to see the president if it were just $100,000.
You know, send me a letter.
So I saw the attorney, and Dr. Berger wanted to know he didn't need the money.
He wanted to know what we would do with it if, instead of accepting it, he simply
and there's a technical legal term, sort of declined to accept the inheritance himself from his late brother-in-law by his late wife, and in fact directed it to us.
And the way the law works, you've got sort of a window of opportunity that might last a year, a specified number of months, in which this kind of a decision had to be made, and the clock was ticking, and he had to make up his mind within a week.
So I said to the attorney, how much money is involved?
And the attorney said, $7 million.
Excuse my grief.
How recent is this, by the way?
This was within the last 12 months, I guess.
Wow.
So, 99?
I believe it was in 99.
Might have been 98, 98, 99.
So, it turns out that Charles Liebman loved manuscripts.
And so we allocated $4 million to endow the Manuscript Division here.
Wow.
You're going to call it FDM, name it?
No, but we did name.
And then $3 million we used to endow the Scholars and Writers Center that we've created.
Oh, I see.
So some of this money came from you.
So the public meeting room there where the lectures to the public will be presented is called...
The Margaret Liebman Burger Forum.
Margaret?
Liebman.
L-E-I-B-M-A-N.
How come Margaret?
Burger.
Burger Forum.
Because the money had come to Margaret, and it was Margaret's husband.
So was this a departure from the will?
No.
Because he did pre-decease.
He did pre-decease, yes.
But the sole survivor of the three of them, Dr. Burger, said, well, you know, why shouldn't I...
abide by my late brother-in-law's initial wishes.
Most people wouldn't take $7 million unless Dr. Berger didn't need it.
Well, Dr. Berger was also, I assume, inheriting from his wife and had his own assets.
And Dr. Berger at that point was in a nursing home.
I see.
He and his wife, his wife was more ill than he, and so he couldn't provide for her at home.
That's a nice story.
So they had both checked into a nursing home.
Is this written anywhere?
No.
That's a nice story.
And he just died.
It's a nice, it's a lovely story.
I love it.
And the lawyer was here for tea the day before yesterday, and we showed him the room.
How can I get some material on this to document?
Catherine Dunn, who's our senior vice president.
And would you, I know you're leaving, but can I tell her that we spoke, or would you?
Yeah, sure.
And would you express that it would be all right for her to share some?
Yeah, yeah.
Catherine Dunn.
The UNN.
And the secretary's outside can give you her phone.
Okay, good.
Terrific.
That's a wonderful story.
And I'd love to find out something about Ratke.
Would you also be the one to give me some information about him?
I'm thinking, you see, of using an epigraph for every chapter.
And I hadn't, until I walked in today, and I said, there's my epigraph for this.
It doesn't always have to be Voltaire or Borges.
It can be somebody like
That's very nice.
I thought that would just be because this is what a public library is.
Right.
Since we last spoke, I got the famous $15 million gift to do the reading room.
Have you seen the reading room?
I haven't.
I just spent a half an hour up there now.
It's gorgeous.
To keep copying stuff up there.
It's my legacy.
Isn't it exquisite?
It's magnificent.
It's absolutely magnificent.
So that was a gift from a tripte and her husband.
And anyone we can name?
Oh, sure.
Sandra Priest Rose and Frederick Phineas Rose.
We have this much.
press clippings on that.
And again, Catherine would be the person for this stuff.
Yep.
Somebody else would just send me an $8 million personal check.
Easy smile.
Let the tape show, but Paul is smiling.
But she doesn't want her name banished about it.
That's fine.
That's to create a whole new orientation center for the public here in this building.
Okay, which brings us to something.
The public library here, the New York Public Library in particular, seems to be, you're not a university.
You're a library.
And yet you are doing things beyond the transmission and the preservation of knowledge.
You're doing things of scholars.
You're doing things that would normally be in the purview of a... Well, yes and no.
Well, I think it's wonderful.
Perhaps you could explain to me what you're doing.
Well, most...
But my time is really limited.
Okay.
Well, how much time do we have, by the way?
We have five minutes.
Just five?
Yeah.
We have two important questions to ask you before we go.
Most independent libraries in America have centers for advanced scholarship.
The American Antiquarium, the Folger, the Getty.
Yeah, but they're specialized research libraries.
They're not really public libraries, even though we know the special circumstances.
Yes, but this is a very, very high-end, intensely rich, vast collection that obviously is intended to serve the needs of the scholar community as well as other communities.
So it was Bob Darnton, the great historian of the book, who suggested... Which is one of the two questions that I have here involves Bob Darnton, so go through my head.
Well, what pleases me about some of the work that I've been able to do here is that
While I'm no longer in a university with faculty around me, I was able to bring into the library's family two of the great, great scholars whose work I've always admired, Peter Gay and Robert Darnton.
And, you know, it was Darnton.
When I got here, I realized that we had no academics on the board.
So I pointed that out.
I've interviewed Bob for this book.
Yeah, I pointed that out to the chairman.
He said, who do you want?
I said, Darnton.
So Darnton came on.
Darnton gave me the idea of creating a center for scholars, and then the donor said you should make them scholars and writers.
And I said, of course, why didn't I think of that?
So it's now scholars and writers.
And then hired Peter to be his first director, which was a wonderful thing.
What was I going to tell you?
That's OK.
Let me ask my question.
Oh, go ahead.
No, no.
What we realize now is that as we put all this very, very high-end information technology into these facilities, and as we ourselves move very aggressively into the field of the electronic dispersal of information, the New Public Library, when I met you, we didn't even have a website, I believe.
Last month, in one month alone, we had 17 million hits on the library's website, with readers coming from 161 different countries.
and so you can track that yeah and you can even track those i can give you the list okay easter island andorra i didn't realize that you could i can give you the list of all the different countries of where we just oh you should see it we'll get that to the captain yeah it's uh yeah 135 thousand electron view sessions
So as we make these places more sophisticated in terms of information technology, we realize increasingly that we have a responsibility to train the public on how to use these libraries, how to exploit them skillfully, efficiently, effectively.
And we are building now classrooms in this library, in this building.
We're building a new building, yes, with classrooms in it and a whole new orientation center in which to train readers, both those who read in traditional kinds of ways.
Are we talking about the general public?
Are we talking about students?
Are we talking about scholars?
How do you define a reader?
Anybody.
All of them.
If you come in here, we should be able to tell you how the collections are organized,
What's where?
Are you going to have a classroom for that?
Yes.
So you'll have sessions that are there.
Well, we have four classrooms at Sybil, and to date we've trained, in terms of IT, about 30,000 people.
There's an immense demand for it.
How to use the library.
That's right.
And how to use the library.
And what we do is we convert librarians into teachers, instructors.
Yeah.
Well, we can tell you a lot about this.
I mean, this is a big deal for us.
And we have a whole, we got a million dollars from the Hearst Foundation to do a three-year advanced management training program for all the librarians and the research libraries.
And we hired a guy to do that.
He's really quite wonderful.
So the, you know, the kind of advance that we're making at the New York Public is taking exceedingly seriously the need to reconceptualize part of the work of a professional librarian with training of the public.
as a key element in that reconceptualization.
And we are building facilities in which we can... The facilities were here or elsewhere?
Here, in the branches, but especially in the research libraries.
We're putting in a training center in the new Library for the Performing Arts that we're renovating.
And we're putting in a substantial commitment to a training center here at Fifth Avenue.
So quickly, because you do have to go, let me do three things.
The first time we spoke
And we've touched on this.
You said, do you realize how much money I have to raise every week to keep this place going?
And I think the figure you said was half a million dollars a week.
It's now $600,000.
So it's now $600,000.
So that's the $2,000.
That's number one.
Number two, in my interview with Bob Darnton, he mentioned that, of course, being a trustee, that this is springing out of the Zinman thing and the...
periodicals which were microfilmed and the books that were guillotined and are rather embarrassing i'm not getting into this in a great deal but i have to deal with it and bob did say that you have developed a plan or a no very comprehensive policy and is this something that i can see that i can have or that i could i don't know uh but i'll find out and i'd like but even i'd like to know what the policy of the library is now on that matter very conservative
It's very conservative.
But my colleague, Bill Walker, who runs the research library, has put this together.
Should I call Bill on this?
Yeah.
Why don't you do that next week?
He's in an ARL meeting in Chicago.
But I think, Bill, I think we have to address ourselves.
Sure.
Because Bob did.
Oh, it's a major revision.
And I think it will be to your best interest to let me have it, too.
Because I think you do recognize the error of your ways.
Not your ways, but certainly.
Maybe things were done that shouldn't have been done.
It's easy in hindsight.
You did preserve the information, of course.
There were different attitudes towards managing collections 20 years ago than are the case now.
And the artifact is taken on a different kind of context.
The whole concept of the artifact is taken on a different... The artifact is container, it's not just
It's not just, I mean, the argument tends to be what's more important, the information it carries or the artifacts?
Well, it's a, it's a... Of course, Bob Darton, this is one of his major concerns.
It's a substantially complicated issue.
I mean, one has to look at the financial condition of this library in the 1970s.
It was not what it is today.
And one, there were fiscal capacity issues, whether or not the library had the resources to keep.
contain everything that it owned or that was coming to the collections.
There were preservation issues.
There were attitudes that are developing, and you can talk to Pat Batten, who's the best spokesperson, about preservation microfilming and so on and so forth.
So what this administration did, when it had the opportunity to look at
practices and to consider revising those practices was to do what we consider to be the best thing given our own attitude today towards collections at our own capacity.
Our economic or financial capacity now is vastly superior night and day from what it was 20 years ago, 25 years ago.
And I absolutely understand the relevance of that.
That makes perfect sense.
Sure.
And I'm a friend here, so you have to understand that I'm not
You have to understand where I'm coming from, but I would also be criticized if I didn't address the subject.
It's not our issue alone.
No, no.
I have a whole chapter on it.
Have you heard of the James J. Hill Library out in St.
Paul, Minnesota?
They got rid of 150,000 books.
This is an issue for all research libraries.
This is not an issue, but it's particular to the New York Public Library at all.
You just had more material.
I mean, you had a larger critical mass of material, too.
You also had things which were degrading, and we were talking here about pamphlets.
I don't know if we had a larger critical mass in other great research libraries and university-based research libraries.
We might not have.
But again, funds are critical.
You are at a university, and you don't have an endowment, per se.
You certainly didn't have one in the 70s.
And then finally, a small thing, we've heard about the discussion going on at the Library of Congress, the debate as to whether or not they will shelve by height, and then you guys have about 40% of, you've been doing it for a long time, is that right?
We've been doing it since this building opened.
And it hasn't, what's your take on it?
Has it been a successful?
Of course, you don't have open stacks, so people don't go in and browse according to subject classifications by office.
No, we will continue to shelve by height, even in the off-site facility.
Well, outside makes sense.
That's where it absolutely makes sense.
The Harvard model is entirely by size.
You eliminate the air.
That's the whole point.
But is your evaluation that it's been a successful, no big problem?
I mean, you don't understand what all the excitement's about?
Why is all this criticism coming from within the Library of Congress as to whether or not they might?
And this is not a browsable library, so I don't understand it myself.
I went to the new German library.
It's entirely done.
Every book is
catalog by the time it comes in in the year.
That's the 001.
That's the first book that comes in in 2001.
That's how it shows.
No, I must admit, maybe I shouldn't, but I'm oblivious to the controversy of the Library of Congress.
It's not something... Good.
I like the quote, too.
That's it.
I wish we had more time.
Yeah, I do, too.